---
titleOld Lady
date2012-11-20
categories: 
  - "blog
tags: 
  - "35mm
  - "bw
  - "cosina
  - "japan
  - "nex-7
  - "street
  - "street-photography
  - "tokyo
  - "urban
  - "voigtlander
---

Lovely weather again this morning. Walking from Akihabara to Hongo after treating Charlotte to a birthday Starbucks breakfast, the air was crisp and the streets full of life. A bright, crisp morning is a very welcome way to start the day. Must be my British colours showing, as I find this kind of weather absolutely ideal. Speaking of colours - Autumn is in full swing and I intend to get to a park this weekend and take some photos of leaves (probably sounds more boring than it will be).

Apartment hunting. Well, that's stopped. We visited a decent place on Saturday, but as there was no deposit, we were expected to pay a guarantor company a fee equal to one month's rent. That's on top of the one month's rent agent fee, 1 month's rent err.. rent, and insurance. Then come moving costs, and.... time. Lots and lots of time. The weather was utterly insane on Saturday. Huge amounts of rain (one pair of shoes ruined) and generally miserable. I'd woken up feeling as if I had drunk 10 vodkas due to the dryness in the air overnight (I'll be buying a humidifier soon - a departure from the damp Autumn and Winter in the UK!), and then after seeing the apartment, we were in two minds over what to do. After much deliberating and discussions, we decided to stay put and sign the contract to remain where we are, even though Charlotte's commute is almost 2hours one-way (not that uncommon in Tokyo).

Anyway, we'll be staying where we are. That means I'll continue to walk this same path most evenings, seeing the different characters inhabiting this corner of Tokyo. This old lady (no disrespect intended) was walking towards the greengrocers behind me, as I was walking to work. I had my camera at waist height, and set to 5m focus, aperture of f/2. I was amazed at the result. This is a crop of the original photo, as I wasn't holding the camera as level as I thought, and there was an unsightly cone further to the right, but I'm rather pleased with the result. There's something about the older generation - especially in Japan - which makes them extremely photogenic. There's a whole tapestry of life on her face, as she one-eye squints at my camera, wondering what on earth this foreigner is up to.
